
JeanPiere Demir

Email: jeanpiere.demir@gmail.com

Phone: (+90) 538 6577505

---

Research Projects
-----------------
**Smart Grid and Power System Analysis (April 2015​-June 2016)**

At this project,My advisor was Murat Gol,who is Asso.Profesor at METU.In this project,my aim was a Enhancement of State Estimator for Power Systems Measurement.Firstly to be able to understand a Grid,I tried to create an environment where the whole connectivity matrices , measurement matrices(Sparse Matrices) can be declared by Knuth’s Method. After implementing that by using C++ OOP than  analyzed a real Grid try to find admittance matrix of the grid.Now I try to analyze the grid or the network it is observable or not.

**Data Measurement System(November 2015­-May 2017)**

At this project ,My advisor was Murat Gol and Ozan Keysan ,who are Asso.Professors in METU.In the project,our(Advisors and the other group members) main object is construct a portable grid measurement device.My main job is ,draw and test the Measurement PCB and try to determine which algorithm will be used in that device and than imply them.I am using C++ for algorithm implementation and I used Altium for PCB design.I did 4 layer measurement PCB with the help of Mesut Ugur who is research assistant. Than , I wrote some communication drivers for DSP.

**RIoT(Wi-Fi Controlled Smart Laboratory)(June 2016-)**

At this Project,My advisor was Murat Gol who is Asso.Professor in METU and I worked with group called IEEE RAS METU which the former chair was me. In the Project, We tried to construct a smart laboratory which power line can be controlled by using Wi-Fi and so step-by-step we can construct a human companion robotic laboratory . Our main object is analyzing whole flat grid and so construct an embedded based control system to achieve the object . We were using Lua programming language based NodeMCU and python,C++ to control Raspberry Pi based scripts. Because the Project is ongoing that is all about Project declaration .

Course Related Projects
---------------------
**Modelling a DC Motor Drive System(March 2017-April 2017)** 

In this project my advisor was Ozan Keysan who is Asso.Professor in METU and this project was our lecture(EE462) project. My objectives was,
 
- Modeling a DC motor drive system using various techniques

- Building a simple DC motor drive on your own

- Analyzing of the electrical and mechanical characteristics

**Modeling a four-quadrant chopper DC-motor drive system for Metro Traction System(April 2017-April 2017)**

In this project my advisor was Ozan Keysan who is Asso.Professor in METU and this project was our lecture(EE462) project.My objectives was,

- Modeling and simulation of four-quadrant DC motor drives with power electronics

- Applying open-loop and closed-loop control

- Circuit design and component selection

- DC motor modes of operation

**Design of Induction Motor Drive (May 2017-June 2017)**

In this project my advisor was Ozan Keysan who is Asso.Professor in METU and this project was our lecture(EE462) project.My objectives was,

- Characterization of the motor from the given data
- Designing induction motor drive system for a specific application

	- Drive topology proposition

	- Power stage design
	
	- Control system design

- Modeling and simulation of the proposed design in MATLAB/Simulink

- Applying open-loop control for different operating modes

- Performance evaluation of the designed drive system

- Applying closed-loop control

**Training Multilayer Perceptron In order to Control Prosthetic Hand Controllers (April 2017-April 2017)**

In this project my advisor was Ugur Halici who is Proffesor in METU and this project was our lecture (496 (Introduction to Computational Intelligence)) project. Project Description is,

In order to control a robotic prosthetic hand, Prosthetic Hand Controllers (PHCs) gets the signals generated by straining muscles in the forearm. We can, applying supervised learning, get a PHC to learn which hand movement the user wants to perform. There are given a data set consisting of three days of electromyographic (EMG) signals from a robotic prosthetic hand controller with the object to learn eight hand motions and to teach the controlle I used MLP.

**Assigning Students to Courses using Genetic Algorithm (May 2017-May 2017)**

In this project my advisor was Ugur Halici who is Proffesor in METU and this project was our lecture (496 (Introduction to Computational Intelligence)) project. Our purpose was to assign each on N students to one of K courses with limited capacity. Students indicates their preferences. Our main goal is to maximize the satisfaction of preferences and we have some restrictions while achieving this goal.

- Each student should be assigned to exactly one course 

- Course capacities should not be exceeded

The purpose of the genetic algorithm is to ﬁnd the best candidate for the solution,and after pass the new childs to next generation.

**Bug Algorithms implementation for Convex Objects(March 2017-April 2017)**

In this project my advisor was Prof. Uluc Saranli and this project was our course related homework. Our purpose was to implement Bug Algorithms for given Convex Environment. (Open ceng786_hw1.m file and hit the run button) 

**Sensor Based Coverage (April 2017-May 2017)**

In this project my advisor was Prof. Uluc Saranli and this project was our course related homework. Our purpose was to develop trapeziodal decomposition based on sensor coverage algorithm. (Open ceng786_hw2.m file and hit the run button)

**RG-RRT for Planar Hexapod**
In this project my advisor was Prof. Uluc Saranli and this project was our course related homework. Our purpose was to implement RG-RRT* algorithm for planar hexapod which configuration space was 30D. I could not share the scripts directly but one can review the project report and if it scripts are required I can share the script with them.
*Walter, M., Reachability-guided, R. T., Shkolnik, A., Walter, M., & Tedrake, R. (2014). Reachability-guided sampling for planning under differential constraints The MIT Faculty has made this article openly available . Please share Citation Accessed Citable Link Detailed Terms Reachability-Guided Sampling for Planning Under Differential Const.

**Scrap Minimization via DFP,FR,SD,Newton (December 2018-January 2019)**
In this project my advisor was Prof. Kemal Leblecioglu and this project was our course related homework. Our purpose was to develop a scrap minimization algorihtm via Gradient Descent, Fletcher-Reeves, DFP and Newton Algorithm. MatLab GUI environment is used to simplify user interaction. (Open gui_v2.m file and hit the run button)

**Helicopter Control**
In this project my advisor was Prof. Klauss Werner Schmidt and this project was our course related homework. Our purpose was to develop a feedback linearization based planar helicopter controller. 

---
Currently , I am interested in Robots Motor Drive and I try to understand some different robot kinematics and dynamics . Moreover, I am dealing with Actuated Passive Walkers and Stability Analysis tool for Underactuated Robots.
